Docs: agents (#4561)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Agents/agent-tool-calling-agent-component.md

---

> title: Create a problem solving agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Create a problem-solving agent
```

sidebar_position: 2
slug: /agents-tool-calling-agent-component
---

Developing **agents** in Langchain is complex.

> The `AgentComponent` is a tool for easily creating an AI agent capable of reasoning through tasks using tools you provide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `AgentComponent` is a tool for easily creating an AI agent capable of analyzing tasks using tools you provide.
```

> The component contains all of the elements you'll need for creating an Agent. Instead of managing LLM models and providers, pick your model and enter your API key. Instead of connecting a **Prompt** component, enter instructions in the component's **Agent Instruction** fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The component contains all of the elements you'll need for creating an agent. Instead of managing LLM models and providers, pick your model and enter your API key. Instead of connecting a **Prompt** component, enter instructions in the component's **Agent Instruction** fields.
```

<img src="/img/tool-calling-agent-component.png" alt="Prompt component" style={{display: 'block', margin: 'auto', width: 300}} />

Learn how to build a flow starting with the **Tool calling agent** component, and see how it can help you solve problems.

## Prerequisites

> - [Langflow installed and running](/getting-started-installation)

Reviewer: I feel like it's a given that the product is installed and running.

> - [OpenAI API key created](https://platform.openai.com/)
> - [Search API key created](https://www.searchapi.io/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [An OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/)
- [A Search API key](https://www.searchapi.io/)
```

> ## Create a problem-solving agent

Reviewer: The title of this page is also "Create a problem-solving agent". Avoid duplicate titles. Can you append either this heading or the main title to create a distinction?

Create a problem-solving agent in Langflow, starting with the **Tool calling agent**.

1. Click **New Flow**, and then click **Blank Flow**.

> 2. Click and drag an **Agent** component on to your workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click and drag an **Agent** component to your workspace.
```

The default settings are acceptable for now, so this guide assumes you're using **Open AI** for the LLM.
3. Add your **Open AI API Key** to the **Agent** component.
4. Add **Chat input** and **Chat output** components to your flow, and connect them to the tool calling agent.

<img src="/img/tool-calling-agent-add-chat.png" alt="Chat with agent component" style={{display: 'block', margin: 'auto', width: 600}} />

> This basic flow enables you to chat with the agent with the **Playground**, once you've connected some **Tools**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This basic flow enables you to chat with the agent with the **Playground** after you've connected some **Tools**.
```

5. Connect the **Search API** tool component to your agent.
6. Add your **Search API key** to the component.
Your agent can now query the Search API for information.
7. Connect a **Calculator** tool for solving basic math problems.
8. Connect an **API Request** component to the agent.

> This component is not in the **Tools** category, can still be used as a tool by the agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This component is not in the **Tools** category, but the agent can still use it as a tool.
```

> To enable **Tool Mode** on component, click **Tool Mode**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable **Tool Mode** on the component, click **Tool Mode**.
```

> To enable **Tool Mode** on component, click **Tool Mode**.

Reviewer: Will the user already be familiar with what "Tool Mode" is and why they are enabling it? Does it need a brief explanation here?

> The component's fields change dynamically based on the mode its in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The component's fields change dynamically based on the mode it's in.
```

<img src="/img/tool-calling-agent-add-tools.png" alt="Chat with agent component" style={{display: 'block', margin: 'auto', width: 600}} />

## Solve problems with the agent

> Your agent now has tools for web search, doing basic math, and performing API requests. You can solve many problems with just these capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your agent now has tools for performing a web search, doing basic math, and performing API requests. You can solve many problems with just these capabilities.
```

* Your tabletop game group cancelled, and you're stuck at home.

> Point **API Request** to an online rules document, tell your agent `You are a fun Game Master who uses the tools at your disposal.` and play a game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Point **API Request** to an online rules document, tell your agent `You are a fun game organizer who uses the tools at your disposal`, and play a game.
```

* You need to learn a new software language quickly.

> Point **API Request** to some docs, tell your agent `You are a knowledgeable software developer who uses the tools at your disposal.` and start learning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Point **API Request** to some docs, tell your agent `You are a knowledgeable software developer who uses the tools at your disposal`, and start learning.
```

See what problems you can solve with this flow. As your problem becomes more specialized, add a tool. For example, the [simple agent starter project](/starter-projects-simple-agent) adds a Python REPL component to solve math problems too challenging for the calculator.

## Add custom components as tools {#components-as-tools}

Custom components can be used as tools by an agent.

1. To add a custom component to the problem solving agent flow, click **New Custom Component**.

2. Add custom Python code to the custom component.

> Here's a text analyzer for sentiment analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example text analyzer for sentiment analysis.
```

    icon = "chart-bar"
    name = "TextAnalyzerComponent"

    inputs = [
        MessageTextInput(
            name="input_text",
            display_name="Input Text",
            info="Enter text to analyze",
            value="Hello, World!",
            tool_mode=True,
        ),
    ]

    outputs = [
        Output(display_name="Analysis Result", name="output", method="analyze_text"),
    ]

    def analyze_text(self) -> Data:
        text = self.input_text
        
        # Perform text analysis
        word_count = len(text.split())
        char_count = len(text)
        sentence_count = len(re.findall(r'\w+[.!?]', text))
        
        # Transform text
        reversed_text = text[::-1]
        uppercase_text = text.upper()
        
        analysis_result = {
            "original_text": text,
            "word_count": word_count,
            "character_count": char_count,
            "sentence_count": sentence_count,
            "reversed_text": reversed_text,
            "uppercase_text": uppercase_text
        }
        
        data = Data(value=analysis_result)
        self.status = data
        return data
```

> 3. To enable the custom component as a tool, click the **Tool Mode** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. To enable the custom component as a tool, click **Tool Mode**.
```

4. Connect the tool output to the agent's tools input.
5. Ask the agent, `What tools are you using to answer my questions?`

> Your response will be similar to this, and includes your custom component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your response will be similar to the following, and will include your custom component.
```

```plain
I have access to several tools that assist me in answering your questions, including:
Search API: This allows me to search for recent information or results on the web.
HTTP Requests: I can make HTTP requests to various URLs to retrieve data or interact with APIs.
Calculator: I can evaluate basic arithmetic expressions.
Text Analyzer: I can analyze and transform input text.
Current Date and Time: I can retrieve the current date and time in various time zones.
```

## Add flows as tools

> Flows saved in your workspace can be used as tools by an agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An agent can use flows that are saved in your workspace as tools.
```

---
title: Create a problem-solving agent
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /agents-tool-calling-agent-component
---

Developing **agents** in Langchain is complex.

> The `AgentComponent` is a tool for easily creating an AI agent capable of analyzing tasks using tools you provide.

Author: Good catch

The component contains all of the elements you'll need for creating an agent. Instead of managing LLM models and providers, pick your model and enter your API key. Instead of connecting a **Prompt** component, enter instructions in the component's **Agent Instruction** fields.

<img src="/img/tool-calling-agent-component.png" alt="Prompt component" style={{display: 'block', margin: 'auto', width: 300}} />

Learn how to build a flow starting with the **Tool calling agent** component, and see how it can help you solve problems.

## Prerequisites

- [An OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/)

> - [A Search API key](https://www.searchapi.io/)

Reviewer 2: should we show much simpler tool instead of search API?

<img src="/img/tool-calling-agent-add-tools.png" alt="Chat with agent component" style={{display: 'block', margin: 'auto', width: 600}} />

## Solve problems with the agent

Your agent now has tools for performing a web search, doing basic math, and performing API requests. You can solve many problems with just these capabilities.

* Your tabletop game group cancelled, and you're stuck at home.
Point **API Request** to an online rules document, tell your agent `You are a fun game organizer who uses the tools at your disposal`, and play a game.
* You need to learn a new software language quickly.
Point **API Request** to some docs, tell your agent `You are a knowledgeable software developer who uses the tools at your disposal`, and start learning.

See what problems you can solve with this flow. As your problem becomes more specialized, add a tool. For example, the [simple agent starter project](/starter-projects-simple-agent) adds a Python REPL component to solve math problems that are too challenging for the calculator.

## Add custom components as tools {#components-as-tools}

An agent can use custom components as tools.

> 1. To add a custom component to the problem solving agent flow, click **New Custom Component**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To add a custom component to the problem-solving agent flow, click **New Custom Component**.
```

```

3. To enable the custom component as a tool, click **Tool Mode**.
4. Connect the tool output to the agent's tools input.
5. Ask the agent, `What tools are you using to answer my questions?`
Your response will be similar to the following, and will include your custom component.
```plain
I have access to several tools that assist me in answering your questions, including:
Search API: This allows me to search for recent information or results on the web.
HTTP Requests: I can make HTTP requests to various URLs to retrieve data or interact with APIs.
Calculator: I can evaluate basic arithmetic expressions.
Text Analyzer: I can analyze and transform input text.
Current Date and Time: I can retrieve the current date and time in various time zones.
```

## Add flows as tools

An agent can use flows that are saved in your workspace as tools.

1. To add a **Flow as tool** component, click and drag a **Flow as tool** component to your workspace.
2. Select the flow you want the agent to use as a tool.
3. Connect the tool output to the agent's tools input.
4. Ask the agent, `What tools are you using to answer my questions?`
Your **Flow as tool** flow should be visible in the response.

> ## Make any component a tool

Author: Updated screenshots to remove Beta tag
Added instructions for agent-as-tool
Removed reference to webhook component
